# Introduction

## Rationale behind the kernelXDK

The rationale behind the current beta version of the kernelXDK (Kernel eXploit Development Kit) is pretty simple: we'd like to have exploit which can be easily ported between kernelCTF versions.

Currently we are [paying extra for kernelCTF researchers](https://google.github.io/security-research/kernelctf/rules.html#3-exploits-for-cos-instances) to port their exploits from e.g. LTS to COS and in the majority of the cases the only difference between these two exploits are just the ROP chains or minimal spraying differences.

kernelXDK aims to detach target-specific information (symbol offsets, ROP chain gadgets, structure and kmalloc cache information) from the exploit itself: making the exploits target-independent. This way we can easily introduce new targets for kernelCTF without the need to manually port these exploits to the new targets.

## Limitations

The current beta version of the kernelXDK has several limitations, and should only be looked at as a proof-of-concept, v0.1 or "minimal viable product" version of the kit which only aims to satisfy one goal of many future goals (see the "Future ambitions" section): **make 50% - 90% of kernelCTF exploits work on multiple kernelCTF targets.**

# What is kernelXDK?

kernelXDK is a set of tools which can help kernel researchers to write (currently Linux) kernel exploits more easily.

## Tools

The description of the specific tools can be found in the [README.md](../README.md) file.

This graph shows how the tools interact with each other:

```mermaid
graph TD;
    kernel-image-runner[**kernel-image-runner**: runs kernel images optionally with custom kernel modules] --> |can use vmlinuz images from the image db|kernel-image-db[**kernel-image-db:** downloads distro images and collects information about them]
    kernel-image-db --> |uses runner to extract runtime information|kernel-image-runner
    kernel_rop_generator[**kernel_rop_generator**: extracts ROP gadget and stack pivot information from kernel images] --> |can use the vmlinux files from the DB|kernel-image-db
    kernel-image-db --> |use ROP generator to extract ROP gadget and stack pivots information for images in the DB|kernel_rop_generator
    kxdb_tool[**kxdb_tool**: generates .kxdb or .json database with all the target-specific information] --> |processes data from the image DB|kernel-image-db
    libxdk[**libxdk**: C++ library provides target-specific information and exploitation primitives] --> |can use target DB '.kxdb' files generated by kxdb_tool|kxdb_tool
    kernel-image-runner --> |compiles the kernel module|xdk_device[**xdk_device**: adds fake vulns, tracing and debugging capabilities for testing]
    GHA[**Github Actions**] --> |tests the libxdk with image-runner using the xdk_device| libxdk
    GHA --> |automatically builds database for new kernelCTF targets| kxdb_tool
    exploit[**kernel exploit**] --> |links to the library|libxdk
    exploit --> |use or includes .kxdb files|kxdb_tool
    exploit --> |optionally, use the kernel module to introduce fake vulns|xdk_device
```

## Future ambitions

### Mid-term plans

We are planning to add the following features to the kernelXDK mid-term (without a promise, also depending on the feedback we get for the Beta):

* More post-RIP approaches

  * `core_pattern` overwrite support
  * [TBD] eBPF spraying support

* KASLR leaks: EntryBleed / prefetch

* Smaller utility features

  * namespace setup
  * CPU pinning
  * communication and synchronization primitives between threads

* Spraying support

  * Most common spraying primitives (`msg_msg`, `msg_msgseg`, `skbuff`, `user_key_payload`, `simple_xattrs`)
  * Automatic limit bypasses (e.g. via forking)
  * Leaking support (if primitive supports it)
  * Victim object identification (determine which specific sprayed object was corrupted)
  * Cross-cache support
  * Dirty Pagetable support

* TBD

### Areas to explore

These areas are moon-shot plans to explore in the future in case kernelXDK deemed to be useful:

* Structured exploits (exploit recipes): add option to create exploits in a declarative manner instead of an imperative one, focus on the "what" instead of the "how".

* Automatic exploit generation: kernelXDK able to chain the right exploit primitives together to reach LPE from vulnerability trigger.

* Syzkaller-integration: generate exploits automatically from crashes.

* Windows, macOS support.
